
### Features of Amazon EC2

### How to Get Started with Amazon EC2
**Basics**
 - Instances
 - AMI Amazon Machine Image
     - Root Volume Template
     - Launch Permissions
     - Block Device Mapping
     
          EBS or Instance Store
 - Regions and Availability Zones
 - Instance Types
 
     T2.nano
    
 - Tags
 
**Networking and Security**
 - Amazon EC2 Key Pairs
 - Security Groups
 
     Virtual firewall that controls the traffic for one or more instances.
     All traffic is DENIED unless there is an EXPLICIT ALLOW rule for it.
     No DENY rules
 - Elastic IP Addresses
     EC2 -> public IP -> Security Group -> NACL -> Route Table -> IGW -> Internet
     
 - Amazon EC2 and Amazon VPC
 
**Storage**
 - EBS Elastic Block Store
 
     Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides block level storage volumes for use with EC2 instances. EBS volumes are highly available and reliable storage volumes that can be attached to any running instance that is in the same Availability Zone. EBS volumes that are attached to an EC2 instance are exposed as storage volumes that persist independently from the life of the instance.
     - IOPS - **I**nput/output **O**perations **P**er **S**econd
     
         I/O size: 256 KiB SSD and 1,024 KiB for HDD 
     - Root vs. Additional Volumn
         
     - Snapshots 
     
             Back up the data on your Amazon EBS volumes to Amazon S3 by taking point-in-time snapshots. 
         
 - Instance Store

### Pricing for Amazon EC2
 - Pricing
     
     On-Demand Instances - Pay for the instances that you use by the second, with no long-term commitments or upfront payments.
     
     Reserved Instances - Make a low, one-time, up-front payment for an instance, reserve it for a one- or three-year term, and pay a significantly lower hourly rate for these instances.
     
     Spot Instances - Request unused EC2 instances, which can lower your costs significantly.
